10 extremely useful tools you should be
using in your marketing right now do you
want to know what the most challenging
thing about marketing is it involves a
lot of other skills i mean depending on
what you're doing in order to run a
successful marketing campaign or efforts
you need to know quite a few skills and
they have to play nicely together
whether it's content writing and
copywriting or design and branding and
user experience or even paid ad
management or seo or landing page
creation heck even marketing funnels and
social media marketing the list goes on
and on with all that when you don't have
a team helping you out doing marketing
can be difficult so what should you do
give up of course not can you actually
do marketing as a solo entrepreneur or
even as a solo marketing consultant
yes you can and that's the good news
there's a lot of tools that can save you
anywhere from a few minutes to a few
hours to literally a week's worth of
time every single year
and it hasn't always been that way when
i started doing marketing i actually
needed to be doing a lot of things
manually and i didn't have a team to
help me out
i would take on seo and marketing
clients and do everything
from their strategy to the execution on
their campaigns and even help change
their code that would often involve
writing content doing keyword research
even playing around with wordpress back
then a lot of people didn't even have
cmss so i was logging in through ftp and
changing their files but in this day and
age things have completely changed from
writing blog titles to finding email
addresses of website owners when they
don't even publish it on their website
the level of effort you need to put in
is like one tenth of what it used to be
so let's go over some of the tools to
see how you could save anywhere from 10
to 40 percent of your work time each and
every single week so that way you don't
have to hire as many people
there are a few activities involved with
content creation that are time consuming
and high effort these typically are
research ideation and writing itself
assuming you already know the keywords
you want to target and have a plan of
attack your seo and content marketing
the next most important thing for you to
do is find out the top ranked pages in
your space and what those pages are
doing so you can be better than them and
a big part of your effort will be around
doing research on google for keywords
that you want to target you'll analyze
the top ranking pages not just of your
site but of competitors how long their
content is the topics they cover how
much rich images and videos that they
contain the step-by-step steps that
they're talking about the questions
they're answering and just the overall
common user experience of the page the
idea is by knowing everything that your
competitors are doing you can get ahead
of them by making your content better
now if you had to do all the effort
manually you could easily spend four
hours just doing research for one
keyword but there are quite a few tools
that can help you out with that and
these tools will do a lot of heavy
lifting for you and scrape google search
results to analyze all the top ranked
pages that you're trying to target with
those keywords they'll then analyze the
pages using natural language processing
technique to determine what topics not
just keywords what topics they're
writing about and how important it is
for you to include those topics in your
content as well these tools will do
roughly the same thing but they'll have
a few different additional features that
will differentiate them all you have to
do is see which one has the best cost
and benefits depending on your business
and what you're focused on so let's go
with the tools i'm talking about
phrase.io
seoscout.com clearscope.io
usetopic.com marketmuse.com
but the greatest value that they all
offer is helping you create content
outline that all the basic information
is about around that topic so what
should that topic cover what headings
should you be using that should be on
that page how long will your content be
how many images and videos should you
include in your content questions you
should answer
sources that you should quote among many
other interesting things the interesting
part about a lot of these tools is
they'll have features like ai writing
which will help you both with ideation
and writing the ai is not perfect but it
does save you around half the time
they'll enable you to come up with ideas
for your titles headings they'll even
write paragraphs for you
i'm about to launch a similar tool on
ubersys for free and if it's something
that you'd be interested in make sure
you leave a comment below explaining why
i'm curious about how you would use a
feature like that and the type of
business that you're in
now the second category of marketing
tools is paid ad management tools
managing paid ads is kind of a big deal
if you don't manage your ads well enough
you'll just waste tons of money it's
like literally throwing money down the
toilet and flushing it you don't want to
do that so you want to make sure that
you're managing your ads correctly
so let's go over a few tools that will
help you mostly with your paid ads
magicx.com it'll automatically optimize
your ad campaigns for you covering from
facebook and instagram ads even youtube
and google ads it'll use artificial
intelligence to undercover or uncover
opportunities and improvements it would
actually be really cool if it's an
undercover tool but more so helps you
uncover
it will optimize your campaigns taking
several factors into account like
audiences demographics locations
look-alike audiences budget bids ad copy
ad creation you get the point the
biggest value here is all the time
you'll save and still maintain a high
quality work instead of focusing on
doing tons of manual analysis and doing
tons of data points and going through
all this stuff you can focus on crafting
the perfect messaging
meanwhile
magic x will run tests and experiments
that will help you optimize your ads to
the maximum potential
another tool for you the facebook ad
library facebook ad library shows you
all the ads that your competitors are
running on facebook and instagram it'll
allow you to get insights on what's
doing really well for your competitors
not just ads but even their products
their messaging and i'm not saying you
should copy them but you can create your
own variation of it
the next category of marketing tools are
creative ones when you're doing
marketing you'll often need some sort of
graphic design or image assets to create
your campaigns and even if you're not
talented or don't have a creative bone
in your body that's okay there's some
tools that'll help speed this up for you
and can you guess what tool i'm going to
be breaking down canva as templates for
everything templates for videos
templates for social media ads
infographics heck you want to do a
marketing presentation they got a
template for that too
pixels it's another one pixels offers
thousands of images that you can use in
your marketing for free that way you
don't have to pay for stock photography
so you want to save hundreds of dollars
pixels
and another tool for you hotpot this is
the ai platform that'll allow you to do
all sorts of things with images you can
move backgrounds objects and large image
or even restore older images once you
make changes you just click the restore
and you can go back the last tool i have
for you is for your seo needs you want
to optimize a lot of your seo you don't
want to do it manual you don't want to
worry about keyword research can you
guess what tool i'm going to say uber
suggests it's free it's offered on the
neilpatel.com site or you can just go to
ubersess.com and there's a free plan
that gives you most of everything that
you need